---
layout: post
title: Fruits; a journey
date: 2020-6-30
categories: fiction
image: fulls/fruits.jpg
header-img: images/fulls/fruits.jpg
subtitle: "The journey of 3 talking fruits to fulfill their God-given destiny."
tags: fiction Meliz
---
The boy was staring at three fruits, apple, orange, and banana with a puzzling look, he is sure that he heard some voices coming from the fruits, but soon gave up the absurd thoughts and ran back home before he can listen to them.

"What's going on?" Orange was the first to spoke up. "Don't you know? We'll need to fulfill the God-given task. And that is," Apple replied and glanced towards an old man chewing into a pear nonchalantly. "to be eaten by a human." 

Banana and Orange stared at Apple silently, slowly registering the cold bitter words from Apple.

They started to walk towards the boy reluctantly.

"Hey, kid." Banana shouted towards the kid sat on the porch. The kid's eye widened at the scene of a talking fruit.

"What... the... I knew I head you speak! " The kid shrieked at the fruits."

"Kid, listen, we are not bad guys okay?" Apple said. 

"Yeah I mean, we are just fruits kiddo how bad can we be? Just imagine it's a toy story, but with fruits." Banana smiled reassuringly to the kid.

"Yeah... I guess." the kid started to relax at the words, and settled his gaze back at the fruits. "So, what can I do?"

"We want you to eat us", apple blurted it out nonchalantly.

The kid's round chubby face contorted to a shape much horrified as before and started running into the house while shouting for his dear life.

"See, I told you kids nowadays didn't like to eat fruits anymore. All they want is just artificial chocolate with cheap toys." banana said.

"Uhh, pretty sure is the fact that apple asked him to eat us," Orange said.

Just when Orange was going to retort, the boy silently pushed his dad inside, while muttering something.

"Look, John, I know school is though for you, but you have to keep going. Don't make a joke like that. It's sad for your dad you know".

"No dad what are you saying. Three fruits are trying to talk to me. And they wanted me to eat them!"

"Okay, that's enough. If you really hate school that much, fine. Just drop out of the school and work with me to be a goddamn useless farmer for the rest of your life. If that's what you want." said his dad angrily and stomped his way out.

"Wait, really?" The frightened look on his face has replaced with excitement as he quickly followed his dad.

"Well, the kid's will be dumb either way so it's not exactly our fault right?" as Banana turned around and said, he noticed that Orange was not around.

It could've been the wind, or the dust swirling around, Orange didn't know, for he had been inexplicably drawn towards the great oak tree outside the house. What lying under the great oak tree was fruits stacked and lined up, covered with smoke coming from incense behind. Orange stared at it for a long time until the rest of them joined in.

"Jesus. I guess it was one way to satisfy your purpose," Banana said. "Staying in the void for the rest of your life."

Orange stepped forward.

"Hey, what are you doing Orange," Apple called out from behind nervously.

Another step.

"I'm going to join them," replied Orange.

Another step forward.

"But we're going to fulfill our destiny. We are going to get eaten by someone, surely..." Apple plead came a little late, as Orange lay into the stacks of fruits, perfectly content, no words came from him ever again.

"Let's go," Orange said to Apple. "We'll find one person that'll eat us, eventually"

---

And he was right. Moments later, a man pick Apple up and studied it closely. Their eyes met, even though the man didn't notice Apple's gaze. "Why did she reject me. It's just a movie with cats..." the man whispers to the apple, tears slowly rolling down his cheeks.

"Because you are not good looking, dude." Those are the last words that Apple said before he was yanked to the ground with a violent thud as the man disappeared in seconds. Banana watched the horrifying scene unfold, in slow motion, as Apple was split into 20 parts. He remembered every part of it.

"Looks like it's just me left," Banana returned to the altar where Orange sat peacefully. "It's fun while it lasts." He knew he didn't have much time left, his blackened body told him much. 

"Maybe this is not that bad." He settled himself on the patch of soil and patiently waiting for his time to come.

---

"Dad, dad! Look! The tulip finally grew!" The boy beckoned his dad excitedly.

The tulip swayed delightfully that day.

