---
layout: post
title: Origami; A story
date: 2020-9-12
categories: fiction
image: fulls/origami.jpg
header-img: images/fulls/origami.jpg
subtitle: "Origami; A story."
tags: nonfiction Meliz
---
Origami

*Fold*. It started with a simple mountain fold. It was symmetrical, everything was perfect.

*Fold*. creases to creases, forming a perfect symmetry. I was sitting on my desk looking through youtube 40 minutes tutorial of origami, the rewind key was tapped repeatedly, time slide uncontrollably as I was lost in the mysterious world.

*Fold*. Every crease fall into place like it was intended, the path was laid on the paper, guiding the future fold. I held up the paper, it looked like it has been stepped on a thousand times.

*Fold*. Its body started to take shape. The protruding belly was hideous, but nonetheless, a body. I stared at the horrifying creation, wondering whether the god will think I'm performing voodoo spells. I set it on the table and continue on.

*Fold*. The cute little legs were shaped, the torso was lined up to the crease perfectly, the other legs stick out gracefully. I love this cat more than anything.

*Fold*. I gasped. The head was out of proportion, the cat's misshape mouth was gaped open in horror as if someone she didn't like has asked her out. Is there anything I can do? I frantically turn it around looking for ways to cover up the abominable head.

*Fold*. It now has a scar on its forehead. A permanent scar, to reminds her of the abuse she got from her owner. I tried to flatten it. I tried, and I tried, and I tried...

*Unfold*. Is everything over? Folds upon folds building up, giving life to a piece of paper, just to be disappointed at the end.

*Unfold*. I'd like to think there were still chances of reviving the poor cat, I'd like to close my eye and pretend that she was fine, the bad creases were features, attribute that defined her.

*Unfold*. I loved her. From the first mountain fold, the creases pattern, the unforgettable journey it took to shape her.

*Unfold*. It's now a paper again, with scars spread all across. I threw it into the dustbin. I want to forget about it. 

> But I can't.

I took out a new sheet of paper and lay it flat. 

*Fold*. It started with a simple mountain fold.

