---
layout: post
title: The autistic boy and a sunbathing dog
date: 2020-3-20
categories: non-fiction
image: fulls/boy-crying-min.jpg
tags: Meliz
---
Is it scary to be diagnosed with autism? I've enjoyed the privilege of getting surrounded by friends. When there's a mountain of works piling up the desk, I have my colleagues to complain to. When buying "The Cats" movie tickets for two tragically turned into me buying the most expensive popcorn holder of my life, I'll salvage my broken heart with beer, pizza, dear friends and night full of laughter. 

And I always thought, what will he, the autistic boy that I met when I was a kid do if he was facing problems like me.

I met him on a sunny afternoon lunch at his house, between his family and us as I recall, some social dinner of some sort between his father and mine. His hands were clutching a paintbrush as I walked into the house, coloring a piece of an artbook, which can perfectly qualify as contemporary abstract art. It was a pretty memorable encounter for me. He is detached from the usual family at the hidden corner, passed on by his family during the introduction, like the glorious ceramic vase sitting beside him.

I still vividly remember the pathetic attempt on saying hello to him. It was, just as satirically described before, greeting to a ceramic vase. He tore his abstract painting off, set it aside, and moved on to another fantasy realm of his as I was staring at him -- at the odd and eccentric boy.

> But I hated him.

I hated him back then because he was different, because of his inability to communicate, his unconventional way of doing things and his freakish, offbeat body language. His extreme deviation of the social norms irked me a lot.

"Mr. Silver! Mr. Silver! Dead! Dead! Ms. Chen killed Mr. Silver! " He rose and shouted abruptly, startled everyone around. His dad was quick to apologize and excused himself. He then came over swiftly and dragged the agitated boy to the room, left us in bewilderment. His mom quickly explained to us that Mr. Silver was the golden retriever next door, and he's having a sunbathing while Ms. Chen was trimming the bushes with a hedge trimmer. I can still remember the embarrassment of her face when she's explaining the various cognitive disorder suffered by his boy, and the nervous glances of her when the shriek of the boy along with howl of his father can be occasionally heard.

He might be getting some scolding from his dad, some punishment too, anything that his dad will do to fit him to the society, I thought to myself, when suddenly he ran out of the room with a face full of tears, crying and sobbing. But he was not unhappy, on the contrary, he was smiling. It somehow was a tear of joy. Now-revived Mr.Silver alarmed at the crying boy running towards him but put his guard down after knowing the only intention of the boy was to carefully caressed his fluffy body joyously. I've never felt this overwhelming amount of love expressed by someone before, perhaps it was a temporary withdrawal from his ever-changing life, or just pure, innocent wordless expression of love. After all, everybody has a heart that can be touched by something, maybe he is us, he too, deserved to feel love.

I wouldn't say I'll ever understand the boy, but I wanted to, and I believe that will make a difference. Autism is not a disease, autism is not a choice, they deserve a chance. Sometimes you might feel resentment or impatience towards an autistic person, even though when what they did was merely being themselves. Take a step back and a deep breath, sail through the storms and you might discover the rainbow town on the other end.
