---
layout: post
title: Memory
date: 2021-5-26
categories: fiction
image: fulls/love.jpg
header-img: images/fulls/love.jpg
subtitle: "Memory"
tags: fiction Meliz
---

"Isn't it beautiful?", the old woman proclaimed out loud, oblivious of the surroundings. He watched her through the corner of his eyes, slightly embarrassed by her as he gently ushered her to move on. "Yeah it does, darling." Even though he didn't show it, he was actually very please about going to this community park the second time, especially on their 4th anniversary. 

He was never an afternoon-park-strolling guy, but the neatly trimmed bushes, 
the various blooming flowers that he can't name, the ancient tree sitting at the middle of the park weirdly reminded him of something familiar, something buried deep and unreachable within him... He was snapped back to reality by his wife nudging, they continued their walking.

He didn't know when that he had a suspicion that his wife has dementia, but lack the courage to find it out, to peel away the curtain and see what's really behind. There are times where she is confused by his mention of things, she even missed the 3rd-anniversary last year and was mistaken his name for several times. He knows that it's a ticking time bomb, she might not remember him next week, she might not recall the wonderful dinner at Lu-Pont yesterday, she might not remember the walk to the park today, she might not remember him anymore, perhaps the part of her is waving the last goodbye to him at the moment, perhaps...

"There you are. I was having a hard time finding you!" She settled down beside him at the stool overlooking the lake beside the park. "Anything different than last time we were here?" He asked her. She stared at the lake for what seems like several minutes, before continuing. "No. Everything still the same, everybody is playing their given script right from the start, perfecting their role. The ever so still lake, the gently swaying branch, the growing flower replacing the withered", she
looked at him, with a smile as bright as the sun, "enjoying the sunset with you."

"It is pretty. I would replay the script for as long as you want." He felt overwhelmed by sadness as he said that, the premonition that this might be the last hits him like a truck. He felt the sense of urgency, to do something, anything on this special day, their 4th anniversary. He had a sudden thought. "Let's go somewhere, follow me."

They went through the park, sliding through the narrow path of the forest. "Ohh, where are we going." She giggled behind while holding his hand tight, following him with the long-lost feeling of youth. They crossed the rugged path, greeted by the overgrown grass and the menacing silence of the forest. That doesn't do much to deter him, as he stepped confidently to the once familiar place known for both of them.

They arrived at the cave, where they used to play around when they were a kid. "It's a special day today, our 4th anniversary. Remember when we were 12, and used to hang around here, I proposed to you, well, sort of, using a wooden ring" he said to her while attempting to dig out the ring in the small cave, "and you were so fast with the rejection, I didn't sleep for 2 whole weeks!" They both let out a chuckle. "I have secretly hidden it in here, and I can't believe that the ring is still here! "
He managed to dig out the wooden ring that has long lost the shininess, but there was the unexplainable feeling of longing, longing of the past that has left both of them.

"Will you marry me, again?" he said while kneeling on the muddy ground.

Her smiles fade, and tears started to run down her face. The past swallowed her whole, unable to confront reality.

"Wha-, what's wrong?"

"I'm sorry." She muttered. "I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry... I can't do it anymore."

"Wh-, why? What do you mean?"

She looked at him with such profound sadness. "This whole thing, I can't do it every time, knowing that you aren't there anymore."

"Wh-"

"Please, come back, I need... you " She forced it through her throat, battling through her tears.

"I- " He was lost for words. He stared at his reflection, through the puddles, his wrinkled face with scars and hunched back figure was staring right back at him.

"Wh-, what happen to me? Why can't I remember?"

"You had Alzheimer's 20 years back, and today was our 64th anniversary," she said to him. 

He touched her face, wanting to know more, to fill the story of each of the wrinkles, each of the scars. Perhaps God is playing a terrible joke to him right now, just like in the fairy tale, the feel of her tears brought all his precious memory back, the small little moments, the first time he proposed to her with the wooden ring, the real proposal, the third time, the fourth time, every year after that.

"It must be tough for you." He squeezed her hand tight. "I'm sorry for everything."

She watches him contently, the look on his eyes different, but yet, so familiar.

"You are in me, all the time. There wasn't a time where I forgot you, I want you to know that. It's just carefully tucked away, hidden beneath, a part of me. If I know what love is, it is because of you." He whispered to her, fully embraced her tight, not wanting to let go ever again. "Please, don't let go of me."

There was a time where they each holding a tiny thread of fate that bound them together, so tiny that any move will break the thread. Every once in a while, a new thread was added on top of the existing threads, one by one, eventually, it was impossible to tear it apart. But the person at the other end might not be there anymore.

"Love is not forgetting," she told him, for one last time, still clutching the threads tightly.

